# The simplest Webpack Loader for Haxe code

This is the simplest and most compatible [Haxe](https://haxe.org) loader for webpack that exists.

It takes the javascript output as it is created by your `hxml` haxe file and passes it to webpack without any other additional transformation. That means that any library, feature or haxe version will be supported as 
long as the generated JS files are self-contained.

That means that in your projects you can use the newest hace release and just import your
new **JS ES6** Haxe generated classes without any trouble, or use any additional library or extern
as you would do in any other bare haxe project.

Example of usage with ES6 class import style:

```js
import {MyClass} from '../build.hxml'; 
var a = new MyClass();

import * as hx from 'hx/app.hxml'; 
var b = new hx.MyClass();

// Also es5 build is still supported
const haxe_ns = require('src/NS/build.hxml'); 
var c = haxe_ns.MyClass();
```

During development with `yarn serve` a complete rebuild of such `hxml` will be retriggered when any file
under the haxe class path is changed.


# Features tested and technical notes

No tricks or hacks were applied: the single js file generated by your haxe project is pushed to webpack.
The symbols you marked as `@exposed` will be available at module level. If a main is included it will be
executed at import time.

That means:
- Import seamlessly any Haxe code to a larger Javascript project.
- During development, any change on the haxe source files will retrigger a rebuild.
- There is support for compilation as library only
- There is support for a Main (optional)
- All symbols exposed will be at the namespace from your hxml
- ES6 javascript code from Haxe 4 works fine (Haxe version 4 has the flag `-D js-es=6`)
- SourceMaps: if any `*.map` files are found these will be passed to webpack (Haxe's flag `-D source-map-content`)
- No one stops you from generating Type Script definitions with `-lib hxtsdgen` ([see project](https://github.com/nadako/hxtsdgen))
- Chrome and webpack source maps perfect in Chrome when using `devtool: 'source-map'`. Firefox never worked for me.

Because it just uses the raw vanilla haxe's HXML file and reads the whole bundle you could
use virtually any library, extern as long as it creates a single bundle as pointed by the flags `-js <filename>`.

# Not tested:
- If there are many `-js` targets (die `--next`) each bundle is read and passed to webpack. This option has not been tested. And my guess is that some source maps might be missing (better use different hxml files).
- Splitting a single hxml bild in multiple files has not been tested and I believe that this falls out of the scope from this *simple* loader.

# Installation & Setup

NPM:

```bash
npm install --save-dev https://github.com/vrescobar/webpack-haxe-loader
```

Yarn:
```bash
yarn add --dev https://github.com/vrescobar/webpack-haxe-loader
```

In the future I might build the project and release it at npm... or not.

# Configuration

1. Create a build hxml named for example `app.hxml`:

```hxml
-D js-es=6
-D source-map-content
-cp srchx/
-js bin/haxeapp.js
MyClass
# A main is not necessary but it works:
# -main Main 
```

2. Exclude from git the folder where you want to generate your Haxe's output:

```bash
echo "bin/" >> .gitignore
```

3. Create a haxe class named MyClass at `srchx/MyClass.hx`

```haxe
@:expose
class MyClass {
  var names:Array<String>;
  function new() {
    this.names = new Array();
  }
  public function addName(name:String) {
    this.names.push(name);
  }
  public function hello() {
    var names = this.names.map(n -> 'Hi $n!');
    return names.join("\n");
  }
  public function test() {
	  throw "Thrown exception";
  }
}
```

You can test now already whether haxe compiles by using: `haxe app.hxml`.
The only requirement on haxe is that `bin/haxeapp.js` and `bin/haxeapp.js.map` are generated.

4. Setup your webpack.
If you use vue-cli with chainWebpack edit your `vue.config.js`:
```js
module.exports = {
  configureWebpack: {
    devtool: 'source-map',
  chainWebpack: (config) => {
    config.module
      .rule('haxe-loader')
      .test(/\.hxml$/)
      .use('haxe-loader')
        .loader('haxe-loader')
        .options({
          debug: true
        })
      .end()
  }
}
```

If you use instead `webpack.config.js` something like that:

```js
module.exports = {
  devtool: 'source-map',
  module: {
    rules: [
      {
        test: /\.hxml$/,
        loader: 'haxe-loader',
        options: {
          debug: true
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

5. Use your class from javascript (remember to import paths relatives to the source):
```js
import {MyClass} from '../app.hxml';
var c = new MyClass();
c.addName("Haxe")
c.addName("Webpack!")
console.log(c.hello());
c.test_exception()

```

6. Develop as usual

Use `yarn serve` or `npm serve` as usual and look at the javascript console.
   Hopefully even the source maps point to the proper failing line of code.

```
Hi Haxe!
Hi Webpack!!
Boot.hx:33 Uncaught Error: Thrown exception
    at MyClass.test (MyClass.hx:18)
```

# Supported options
A few options were kept from the original project.
Be aware that `debug` and `server` will be just strings concatenated to the end of your hxml commands!

  - options.server : -> (string) Adds the option to compiler's "--server <variable>" command line
  - options.debug -> (boolean) Passes the flag "-debug" to the end of haxe's command

  The following options are kept for debugging purposes and I might remove them in future revisions:
  - options.ignoreWarnings -> (boolean) Ignores haxe's compile warnings warnings
  - options.logCommand -> (boolean) Prints haxe's command when compiling
  - options.emitStdoutAsWarning -> (boolean) Any STDOUT form haxe's compilation will be printed as warning


### Story and Additional Credits

Although I myself (Víctor) wrote most of the current loader, the code was originally forked from the original [webpack-haxe-loader](https://github.com/jasononeil/webpack-haxe-loader) writen by [Jason O'Neil](https://github.com/jasononeil).

The motivation for this fork was to create a loader which supports raw haxe javascript as emitted. If I could import those emitted js files in my javascript project, why the webpack loader was so picky on certain haxe features and versions and forced me to have a main file?

Originally I needed to support ES6 and Haxe libraries in a larger Javascript project (larger Vue.js project with little Haxe). I didn't like that a main file was required. In addition the original loader crashed with exposed libraries.

The code still uses a part of the original structure and the additional feature support comes from stripping down unnecessary parts of the original project. I publish this fork as I believe the fork will not be accepted in a Pull Request as having different goals.

For a more complex use case don't hesitate to check the original repository.

### License

MIT
